# Fully Functional: Categorizing Cats with Elm and Phoenix

## Abstract
With this talk, I'll teach how to build a highly interactive web application
using Elm and Phoenix. We'll walk throgh the process of building an interactive
multiuser platform allow users to interactively categorize cat gifs.
This talk wil provide a fun way to learn how to integrate an Elm
frontend with a Phoenix REST API and Phoenix channels to allow real-time
communication between users. The talk will be culminated with a live demo where
the audience will be able to use the application to collabroate to categrorize 
as many cats as possible in the avaialble demo time.


## Talk Details 
I plan to start this talk with a tongue-in cheek history of the internet based
around the premise that for years we didn't have enough cat GIFs, and now that
we do have enough, we have a major problem categorizing the GIFs.

I'll outline a proposal to build an application that allows a large distrubuted
group of people to collectively categorize a large number of cat GIFs while
simpltaneously being entertained by getting realtime updates of cats in
categories they choose.

I'll then describe the architecture of the application I designed to allow
crowd sourced cat GIF categorization. This is an appplcation that uses Elm on
the frontend, Phoenix and Elixir on the backend and makes extensive use of
Phoenix channels to provide realtime updates of the categorization status.

Finally, we will do a grouo demo where we use this application as a group to see
how many cat GIFs a roomful of Elmconf attendees can caegorize in a short demo
period. I'll have a running dashboard on displayed on my computer while users
are receiving more personalized updates in their own browsers.

I'm hoping the audience members will leave with a clearer idea of how to make
Elm and Phoenix play togther. In addition, they will learn how Phoenix channels
can work in conjection with Elm to provide realtime asyncronous communication
with a backend server. Hopefully the audience will also have a lot of fun with 
the live demo as they get a chance to interact with rhe technology.


## Pitch
After being exposed to Elm, I thonk many of us have been looking for ways to
build complete applications in a more functional style. Using Elm along with 
Phoenix backend gives us a fully-functional full-stack application that leverage the
real-time capabilities of both environments.

I've been a huge fan of Elm ever since seeing Richard Feldman speak at Strange
Loop 2015. Since then I have been using Elm for small work projects as well as
numerous side projects. Most recently, I've been focusing on developing a
full-stack envieonment that is fully functional and making use of persistent web
connections to enable highly interactive full-stack web applications. I
participate as a speaker at my local Elm meetups and blog regularly on Elm and
other functional programming topics.
